CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Canadian Space AgencyEOSC Joint Project TeamEarth Observation Service ContinuityHarmonized User Needs Document	Rev ESeptember 11, 2020

REVISION HISTORYRev.DescriptionInitialsDateDraft 0Initial draft version of the document.MLMarch 31, 2017 Draft 0.1Second draft version revised following individual feedback from departments and discussions at harmonization meeting (April 26).MLMay 11, 2017Rev AFirst Release VersionMLMay 26, 2017Rev BAdded the possibility of additional classified needs in Section 4.5 and corrected a typo in DEM posting for [LAN-910] and [LAN-920].MLMay 31, 2017Rev B.1Version for public consultations.Also minor updates for MAR-320, MAR-330, MAR-340, MAR-350 and MAR-360.4.MLJuly 05, 2018Rev CAdded the “Minimum Capability for Service Continuity” for each of the needs.Changed SDC to EOSC.Added BAQ information in [MAR-100] and [MAR-120].Added chronic oil spills in [MAR-120].Clarification of vessel detection performance for narrow AOIs/smaller ships in [MAR-200].Clarifications in Section 4.5 on Other Considerations.Minor final edits to address users feedback.MLAugust 12, 2019Rev DRemoved needs strictly related to National Defence  (now addressed in a separate document): [MAR-2xx], [LAN-9xx], [DAT-020], [DAT-030], [DAT-090], [DAT-100], [SEC-030], [SEC-060], [NET-010] to [NET-040].Added [MAR-380] and [MAR-390] that were not covered anymore when removing [MAR-200].Removed the “Minimum Capability for Service Continuity”.Updates (mainly Coverage Frequencies) in [LAN-510] and [LAN-630.1].Updates to [DAT-040], [DAT-50] and [DAT-070].MLJanuary 24, 2020Rev EModified Approvals TableAdded approval process for revisions of the document in Section 1.1.Modified needs [MAR-100], [LAN-100], [LAN-110], [LAN-120], [LAN-200], [LAN-300], [LAN-310], [LAN-400], [LAN-430], [LAN-440], [LAN-510], [LAN-610.1], [LAN-610.2], [LAN-620.1], [LAN-620.2], [LAN-620.3], [LAN-630.1], [LAN-630.2], [LAN-630.3], [LAN-720], [LAN-800], [LAN-810].Need [LAN-600] separated in [LAN-600.1], [LAN-600.2] and [LAN-600.3].New needs: [LAN-610.15], [LAN-615.1], [LAN-615.2], [LAN-630.4].New Section 5.8 with Active Seismic Areas for [LAN-820].Adjustment/clarification of a few stages of maturity in Table 3-1.MLSeptember 11, 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS1	INTRODUCTION	11.1	PURPOSE AND SCOPE	11.2	APPLICABLE AND REFERENCE DOCUMENTS	11.2.1	Applicable Documents	11.2.2	Reference Documents	12	CONSULTATION BACKGROUND	23	SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT OF CANADA USER NEEDS	34	GOVERNMENT OF CANADA NEEDS	74.1	GOVERNMENT OF CANADA MARITIME NEEDS	74.2	GOVERNMENT OF CANADA LAND NEEDS	214.3	GC NEEDS RELATED TO DATA AVAILABILITY AND CONTINUITY, DATA ACCESS AND USE AND SECURITY	444.4	CONSTRAINTS	464.5	OTHER CONSIDERATIONS	465	AREAS OF INTEREST	475.1	ICE MONITORING AOIS [MAR-100]	475.2	OIL POLLUTION (INCL. MOST OF NATIONAL SAR WINDS) AOIS [MAR-120]	485.3	ICE DYNAMICS AOIS [MAR-150]	495.4	LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS [LAN-100]	505.5	ECOSYSTEM MONITORING AOIS [LAN-400]	535.6	SOIL MOISTURE FOR AGRICULTURE AOIS [LAN-510]	535.7	LAND COVER AOIS [LAN-600]	546	ACRONYMS	55
LIST OF TABLES	PAGETABLE 31 – SUMMARY OF GC USER NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSC	3TABLE 41 –GC MARITIME NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSC	8TABLE 42 –GC LAND NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSC (INCLUDING INLAND WATER)	21LIST OF FIGURESFIGURE 51: ENTIRE ICE MONITORING CANADIAN AOI (SEASONAL DEPENDENCY NOT SHOWN).	47FIGURE 52: NORTH POLE AOI FOR ICE MONITORING.	48FIGURE 53: ENTIRE OIL POLLUTION CANADIAN AOI INCLUDING MOST PART OF NATIONAL SAR WINDS REGIONS (SEASONAL DEPENDENCY NOT SHOWN).	48FIGURE 54: PAN-ARCTIC AOI FOR ICE DYNAMICS.	49FIGURE 55: LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS (JAN-FEB).	50FIGURE 56: LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS (MARCH-APRIL).	50FIGURE 57: LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS (MAY-JUNE).	51FIGURE 58: LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS (JULY AND OCT; NONE IN AUG-SEP).	51FIGURE 59: LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS (NOV-DEC).	52FIGURE 510: ECOSYSTEM MONITORING ACTUAL AOIS.	53FIGURE 511: SOIL MOISTURE AOIS.	53FIGURE 512: CANADIAN LAND COVER AOIS.	54
1 INTRODUCTIONThis Harmonized User Needs Document, along with the Department of National Defence/Canadian Armed Forces (DND/CAF) Space-Based Surveillance Requirements Document (SBS-RD), summarize the Government of Canada (GC) main user needs to be considered in the context of the Earth Observation Service Continuity (EOSC) study. 1.1 PURPOSE AND SCOPEThe purpose of this document, when considered in addition to the DND/CAF SBS-RD, is to record the user needs of the Government of Canada departments for the provision of SAR information after the end of the design life of the RADARSAT Constellation Mission (RCM) in 2026.  Although the focus of this document is on SAR-related needs, the document also gives an overview of some non SAR space-based Earth Observation needs that are expected, in some cases, to enhance the SAR information.  This list of broader EO needs is not complete and will be the object of a future exercise outside the EOSC initiative.  The scope of this document is limited to maritime/marine and terrestrial needs.Minor revisions (clarifications, minor performance update, small additions to existing needs) to this document are to be approved by the EOSC Joint Project Team.  Major revisions (addition of new needs or update of existing needs with an impact on the scope) are to be recommended by the EOSC Joint Project Team and approved by the responsible Director Generals.   1.2       APPLICABLE AND REFERENCE DOCUMENTS1.2.1 Applicable DocumentsThere is no applicable document.1.2.2 Reference DocumentsThere is no reference document.2 CONSULTATION BACKGROUNDThe third generation of RADARSAT-brand satellite systems, the three-satellite RADARSAT Constellation Mission (RCM), has been launched in 2019 and is expected to operate until at least 2026.  Once operational, this system will provide Canada with continued and independent access to SAR data, a critical Earth Observation capability that supports a wide range of Government operations. Given the significant planning and financial investments required to deliver a major satellite project, the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) and key federal partners are beginning planning for the next generation of SAR Earth Observation systems in order to ensure that Canada is able to seamlessly maintain this capability and enhance the operational services beyond 2026.To this end, the CSA have consulted key federal partners to gather inputs on Canada’s future Earth Observation needs, with a focus on the SAR data needs, with the objective to provide the recommendations on the way forward to ensure EO Service Continuity for Canada.3 SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT OF CANADA USER NEEDSThis section provides an overview of the Government of Canada main user needs that will be described in more detail in the next section (excluding those already included in DND/CAF SBS-RD).    TABLE 31 – SUMMARY OF GC USER NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSCID NameExpected Contribution from SARStage of Maturity1Mostly SARBenefit from SARNot SAR1-Operational2-Pre-Operatinal3-Emerging[MAR-100]Ice Monitoring (including Sea Ice and Iceberg)xx[MAR-110]Ice Data Assimilationxx[MAR-120]Oil Pollution Monitoringxx[MAR-130]Marine Windsxx[MAR-140]Wind Data Assimilationxx[MAR-150]Ice Dynamics xx[MAR-300]Coastal Altimetryx2x[MAR-310]Marine Turbulencexx[MAR-320]Satellite Derived Bathymetryxxx3[MAR-330]Shoreline/Intertidal Zone Extractionxx[MAR-340]Change Detectionxx[MAR-350]3 Dimensional Shoreline extraction and Depth Estimationxx[MAR-360.1]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Temperature, Salinity & Turbidityxx4x[MAR-360.2]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Currents x5x[MAR-360.3]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Wavesxx[MAR-360.4]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Sea Ice Characterizationxxx[MAR-360.5]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Harmful Algal Bloomxx[MAR-360.6]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Ocean Color xx[MAR-360.7]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Phytoplanktonxx[MAR-360.8]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Bottom Typexx[MAR-370]Changes in marine / estuary fish habitat & vegetationxx[MAR-380]Ship traffic monitoring and pattern identificationxx[MAR-390]Detection and identification of small vesselsxx[LAN-100]Lake Ice Monitoringxx[LAN-110]Lake Ice Thicknessxx[LAN-120]River Ice Monitoringxxx6[LAN-130]Monitoring of  ice formation in the Great Lakes connecting river channelsxx[LAN-200]Permafrost Landscape Characterizationxxx7[LAN-210]Glaciology - Iceberg Dischargexx[LAN-220]Glaciology - Mass Balancex8x[LAN-300]Snow water equivalent retrievalsx9x[LAN-310]Estimating snow cover extentxx[LAN-400]Ecosystem Monitoring – Wetlands and coastlinexx[LAN-410]Northern  Ecosystem Monitoringxxx10[LAN-420]Remote Sensing of Freshwater Environmentsxx[LAN-430]Surface Water Mappingxxx11[LAN-440]Flood Mapping and Flood Riskxxx12[LAN-500]Soil Moisture Data Assimilationxx[LAN-510]Soil Moisture for Agriculturex13x14x[LAN-600.1]Land cover / Land Use Classification - Mapping of crop and non-agricultural cover types (Annual)xx[LAN-600.2]Land Cover / Land Use Classification -Mapping of major crop types (Within-Season)(Within-Season)xx[LAN-600.3]Land Cover / Land Use Classification -Living Over-Winter Cover Cropsxx[LAN-610.1]Vegetation Condition Assessment - Vegetation biophysical monitoring - Agriculturexx15x[LAN-610.15]Vegetation Condition Assessment - Vegetation biophysical monitoring – Cumulative Effectsxx16x[LAN-610.2]Crop Condition Assessment - Vegetation biochemical monitoringxx[LAN-615.1]Crop Production Cycle Monitoring - Detection of seeding and harvest datesxx17x[LAN-615.2]Crop Production Cycle Monitoring - Detection of crop growth stages (phenology)xx18x[LAN-620.1]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment – Mapping grassland and rangeland extentxxx19[LAN-620.2]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment – Estimating grassland and rangeland healthxx20x[LAN-620.3]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment – Estimating grassland and rangeland health – invasive plantxx[LAN-630.1]Land Management- Tillage and crop residue mappingxx21[LAN-630.2]Land Management- Estimation of soil propertiesxx[LAN-630.3]Land Management- Prescription mapping for variable management of agricultural inputs and crop yieldxx[LAN-630.4]Land Management- Delineation of homogeneous field sub-unitsxx[LAN-700]Forest canopy height mapping and monitoringx22x[LAN-710]Biomass mapping and monitoringxx[LAN-720]Active wildfire mapping and fuel consumption monitoringx23x[LAN-800]Infrastructure Integrity Monitoringxx[LAN-810]Infrastructure Damage Assessmentxx[LAN-820]Monitoring Seismically Active Areas and Volcanoesxx[LAN-830]Rapid Earthquake Characterizationxx[LAN-840]Assessing Induced Surface Deformationxx
4 GOVERNMENT OF CANADA NEEDSIn this section, the detailed needs of the GC to be considered in the EOSC study are presented (excluding those already included in DND/CAF SBS-RD).  Section 4.1 summarizes the maritime needs and Section 4.2 summarizes the land needs, including inland waters.  The focus is on the measurement performance, areas of interest, revisit/coverage frequency and latencies.  Section 4.3 includes needs related to data availability and continuity, data access and use and security. 4.1 GOVERNMENT OF CANADA MARITIME NEEDS	This section contains the maritime/marine needs of the Government of Canada to be considered in the EOSC study (excluding those already included in DND/CAF SBS-RD).  While the term « maritime » is used in this section for simplicity, both marine (e.g. organisms, ecosystems dynamics, ocean currents, etc.) and maritime (e.g. human related activity centered on ocean resources) needs are included.  Inland waters are covered in Section 4.2.It is assumed that those needs must be met simultaneously when applicable and that compromise beam modes can only be used if they allow satisfaction of all the applicable needs.  This applies also to the land needs of the following section. TABLE 41 –GC MARITIME NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSCID NamePurpose and RationaleStage of Maturity Needed measurement(s)Measurement Performance(T: Threshold; G: Goal)Area of Interest & Revisit/Coverage Frequency(T: Threshold; G: Goal)Data Latency24 & Fast-tasking (T: Threshold; G: Goal)[MAR-100]Ice Monitoring (including Sea Ice and Iceberg)Operational monitoring of Canada’s navigable waters to support safe and efficient maritime operations.1 - OperationalSea ice type and extentIce thickness (G)Data/image quality to enable multiple ice typing, texture and structure, floe size and shape and icebergs.Polarization:HH/HV & VV/VH dual polarization and Compact Polarimetry (T)Fully polarimetric at swath widths of 200-500 km (G)Spatial resolution:50 m (T)1-10 m (G)with swath widths of 500 km or greater (G).Noise floor:<-28 dB (T)<-30 dB (G)Quantization:Image quality equivalent to at least 3-bit BAQ (T), 4-bit as a goal (G).Other considerations:• Simultaneous (or near-simultaneous e.g. min) multi-frequency/wavelength data is highly desirable; C-band (for continuity) and longer wavelength (e.g. L-Band) would be desirable. For example, L-band SAR would be useful for better classification of ice types (first-year and multi-year) during both dry and wet periods and for improved identification of floe boundaries and ridges throughout the melt season; C- and X-Band combination not desirable as interaction with ice cover is too similar.• High resolution optical imagery (VIS/IR) would be a complementary source of data for this application.• Reliable separation of ice from open water is an outstanding requirement.  CCD using X- or C-band over time period > 0.1 ms required. Concurrent optical data would assist.• Ice thickness information is highly desirable and a complementary source of data for this application.Areas of interest:Ice Monitoring Can AOI (ref. Section 5.1) (T)North Pole (ref. Section 5.1) (G) Coverage Frequency: Ice Monitoring Can AOI: Twice daily (T) North Pole: DailyMorning acquisitions are critical.Data latency:30 min (T)10 min (G)On-board processing for target (ship vs iceberg detection) of interest IF false alarm rate can be minimized and detection accuracy maximized.Fast-tasking:6 hours (G)for emergency situations.[MAR-110]Ice Data AssimilationOperational regional and global sea ice analyses in support of operations and environmental predictions.2 – Pre-operational (while NWP data assimilation is operational, the use of SAR in this process is pre-operational)Ice concentration, thickness and motionPolarization:full polarimetric mode if it can be implemented with large swaths (~500 km).  If there is a choice between full polarimetric mode on narrow swaths and wide swath C-band and dual-polarization (HH-HV) dual-frequency (C- and L-band), wide swath is preferred.Spatial resolution:< 50 m (T)Noise floor:< -30 dB (G)Other considerations:• C- and L-band imagery available simultaneously (highly desirable for sea ice mapping, especially in summer season (breaks, wet ice) to remove ambiguities).• RCM Interferometric capabilities should be maintained (i.e. 4-day Coherent Change Detection).• An instrument on board that would be quite valuable for NWP is a GNSS receiver for radio-occultation (RO). Small instrument with significant impact on forecasts.Areas of interest:Similar to Ice Monitoring and Ice Dynamics but on a global domain (ice on entire globe).Coverage Frequency:4 times daily (6 hours) (G)Twice daily (T)Data latency:30 min (T)[MAR-120]Oil Pollution MonitoringMonitoring to  encourage compliance with Canada’s laws and International Conventions that seek to minimize oil pollution.1 – OperationalOil spill extent over marine areasPolarization:HH/HV & VV/VH (preferred) dual polarization and Compact Polarimetry (T)Fully polarimetric at swath widths of 200-500 km (G)Spatial resolution:10 m (T)3 m (G)with swath widths of 300-500 km, or greater (G)Noise floor:< -28 dB (T)< -30 dB (G)Quantization:Image quality equivalent to at least 3-bit BAQ (T), 4-bit as a goal (G).In addition to large area oil pollution monitoring, there is also a need for high resolution (5m (T)) monitoring of smaller chronic oil spills regions within the larger AOI.  Other considerations:• C-band preferred but X-band could also be used.• High Resolution optical (VIS/IR) imagery would be a complementary source of data for this application.Areas of interest:Oil Pollution Can AOI   (ref. Section 5.2).Specific chronic oil spills regions at higher resolution.Coverage Frequency:Three times daily (G)Twice daily (T)Local acquisition time other than dawn/dusk would also be desirable.Data latency:15 min (T) 5 min (G)On-board processing for anomaly “first-guess” detection is of interest is accuracy can be maximized.Fast-tasking:For emergencyand/or “re-look” at higher resolution (G).[MAR-130]Marine WindsTo support the operational marine forecasting program.1 – OperationalMarine surface wind speed and directionAccuracy:2 m/s at 500 m resolution (T)Better accuracy than current SAR capability (G)Polarization:Optimal VV-VH; Compact Polarimetry.Other considerations:• C-band best but X-band could also be used.• Over 85% of the data used by this application is “re-used” from primary application orders (e.g. ice, oil). Areas of interest:Greatest spatial coverage possible over marine areas.Focus on coastal areas and shared AOI with much of the ice monitoring and oil (ISTOP) needs.  Potential “global” marine wind products in future if coverage allows – see Wind Assimilation.Coverage Frequency:3-4 times dailyData latency:<3 h (T)<10 min (G) [MAR-140]Wind Data AssimilationTo support regional and global numerical weather prediction (NWP) data assimilation over oceans.2 – Pre-operationalMarine surface wind speedsCoverage is more important than the resolution of the data. Hence, data over a 500 km swath would be required. Other considerations:• To complement scatterometers data providing two wind components at about 50 km horizontal resolution.• An instrument on board that would be quite valuable for NWP is a GNSS receiver for radio-occultation (RO). Small instrument with significant impact on forecasts.Global oceansCoverage Frequency:Global coverage 4x daily (G)Data latency: 6 h (T)0.5 - 1.5 h (G) [MAR-150]Ice Dynamics Ice motion products are required to assess the state of the Arctic sea ice cover which supports strategic operational and policy decision making, national and international research initiatives, and infrastructure design. Ice motion information is also used to constrain estimates from seasonal forecast models.2 – Pre-operationalSea ice speed and directionPolarization:HHOther considerations:• L, X and Ku-band imagery could be used in addition to C-band to increase coverage.  L-band could find additional utility during the melt season for determining additional vectors.• Pre-processing of imagery to ingest into the ice drift tracking algorithm would be beneficial to ease the transition to fully operational. Large data volume is an issue.Areas of Interest:  pan-Arctic (ref. Section 5.3)Coverage Frequency:1-3 dayApplication expected to grow with increasing capabilities of SAR, including higher temporal and spatial coverage. [MAR-300]Coastal AltimetryTo build satellite altimetry data for GC’s long-term and operational monitoring of canadian waters.1-OperationalCoastal Altimetry/ Sea LevelAccuracy: 0.5 cmSpatial resolution: 1 kmOther considerations:• Satellite Altimeter.  This technology is currently operational and advancements are expected with the launch of SWOT (first 2-D altimeter).• The technology will grow over the coming decades.• Current satellites: Jason 2 (NASA/CNES), Sentinel-3 SARL (ESA),  AltiKa (ISRO). Area of Interest:  All Canadian watersCoverage Frequency:TBDData latency:11 days (T)2-3 days (G)[MAR-310]Marine TurbulenceMarine forecast and to monitor the physical environment.2-Pre- operational (derived from SAR data)Surfactantscrude oilnatural oil seepsmacroalgae on ocean surfaceAccuracy: 5 km/hSpatial resolution: 1 km   Other considerations:• SAR backscatter (RADARSAT-2) and Ocean Color satellites are currently used.• Relate the radar signal backscatter to turbulent mixing intensity based on the hypothesis that more waves generates more backscatter as well as more turbulence.Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:2-3 days (T)Daily (G)Data latency:1-2 days[MAR-320]Satellite Derived BathymetryDerive water depths to support extension of hydrographic surveys to wider geographical areas. Increase the amount of depth information presented within shallow areas onhydrographic charts.  1-Operational (optical)3- Emerging (radar and hyperspectral)Water DepthSpatial resolution:0.5-2 m (G) 30 m (optical and hyperspectral) 50 m (radar) (T)Other considerations:• Cloud and ice free imagery critical• Optical (e.g. DigitalGlobe, RapidEye, Sentinel-2 and Landsat) and Radar (RADARSAT-2, RCM, possibly TerraSAR-X) data can be used.• Optical gaps: recent coverage; SAR gaps: Regular high resolution coverage within coastal areas. Radar will function best in areas where optical satellite derived bathymetry is not possible (e.g. strong current areas). • Impact of technology change: optical: could impact accuracy of depth estimates; radar: could require significant modifications to depth estimation methods; hyperspectral: minimal impact as satellite methods not yet developed. • Growth expected to be greatest during the 2025-2030 timeframe for optical, and during the 2030/2035-2040 timeframe for radar.Area of Interest:  Canadian coastal waters and major inland waterways (e.g. St. Lawrence River).  Also the Great Lakes for optical data.Coverage Frequency:Monthly (T)Weekly (G)Data latency:3 days[MAR-330]Shoreline/Intertidal Zone ExtractionIdentify shorelines and intertidal zones from optical and SAR imagery for use as source data for hydrographic charts.Detailed shorelines are  required for aquatic species habitat modelling. Accurate assessment of shoreline modifications requiring Fisheries Act and or Species at Risk Act permits.1-OperationalShoreline and intertidal zone locationsSpatial resolution:30 m (T)1-2 m (G)Other considerations:• For optical, cloud free optical imagery is critical.• For SAR, multi-polarization SAR observations (e.g. HH+HV, quad pol, CP) are beneficial.• DigitalGlobe, RapidEye, Sentinel-2, Landsat and RADARSAT-2 are currently used.• Optical gaps: recent coverage; SAR gaps: Regular high resolution coverage within coastal areas.• Technological change impact medium. Methods for shoreline extraction would need to be updated.• Growth expected to be greatest during the 2025-2030 timeframe.Area of Interest:  Canadian coastal waters and major inland waterways, including the Great Lakes.Coverage Frequency:Monthly (T)Weekly (G)Data latency:3 days[MAR-340]Change DetectionIdentify changes in Canadian coastal waters to support hydrographic chart production planning activities.Measuring and monitoring impacts of works near water.1-OperationalAreas of change indicators (vector, raster).Spatial resolution:10 m (T)1-2 m (G)Other considerations:• Cloud free optical imagery critical.• Multi-polarization SAR observations beneficial.  • DigitalGlobe, RapidEye, Sentinel-2, Landsat and RADARSAT-2 are currently used.• Optical gaps: recent coverage; SAR gaps: regular high resolution coverage within coastal areas.• Technological change impact medium. Some changes to methods would be required. • Growth expected to be greatest during the 2025-2030 timeframe.Area of Interest:  Canadian coastal waters and major inland waterways.Coverage Frequency:Bi-weekly (T)Weekly (G) Data latency:3 daysFor emergency:1h (G)3h (T)Fast-tasking:May be requested for emergency situations.[MAR-350]3Dimensional Shoreline Extraction and Depth EstimationUse of stereo optical and/or SAR measurements to derive elevations of coastal areas. Allows for precise mapping of high/low water lines and intertidal zones. Can support validation of tidal predictions.2-Pre-operationalShoreline locations and water depthsSpatial resolution :10 m (T)1-2 m (G)Other considerations:• Cloud and ice free optical imagery critical. • Ice free SAR data critical.• DigitalGlobe and TerraSAR-X currently used.• Gap: stereo data availability over coastal waters.•  RCM expected to be very useful.• Technological change impact may be high if data characteristics change significantly.• Growth expected to be greatest during the 2030/2035-2040 timeframe.Area of Interest:  Canadian coastal waters and major inland waterways.Coverage Frequency:Weekly (G); Annual (T).Data latency:3 daysFor emergency:1h (G)3h (T)Fast-tasking:May be requested for emergency situations.[MAR-360.1]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Temperature, Salinity & TurbidityMonitor the physical environment, detect and quantify changes that may affect the entire marine ecosystem. EO products needed to integrate and complement in situ and field-based monitoring activities in support of regional assessments of oceanographic conditions in marine areas. 1-Operational (Temp.)3-Emerging(Salinity)TemperatureSalinityTurbidityAccuracy: <0.1%Other considerations:• Various platforms, including ships (flow through and direct samples), autonomous vehicles (argo-floats and gliders) and moorings and satellites. • Technology will grow over the coming decades, which may provide opportunities to expand the types of measurements that can be derived for EO systems.Current satellites: Temperature:• MODIS (NASA)• AVHRR (NOAA/EUMETSAT)• SLSTR (ESA/EUMETSAT)Salinity:• SMOS for global coverage (ESA)Ocean Colour satellite for river mouth (correlation of salinity with CDOM absorption)Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:Needed at various temporal (daily, weekly, monthly, seasonally, annually).Data latency:24 to 48 h[MAR-360.2]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Currents Monitor the physical environment, detect and quantify changes that may affect the entire physical oceanography and marine ecosystem.1-OperationalCurrent velocity and directioncoastal currentsmesoscale/ sub-mesoscale features and eddiesAccuracy: <0.1%Spatial resolution: ~1 km Other considerations:Satellite Altimeter.  This technology is currently operational and advancements are expected with the launch of SWOT (first 2-D altimeter).  The technology will grow over the coming decades.Current satellites:• Jason 2 (NASA/CNES)• Sentinel-3 SARL (ESA)• AltiKa (ISRO)Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:weekly (T)daily (G)Data latency:1 week[MAR-360.3]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - WavesMonitor the physical environment, detect and quantify changes that may affect the entire physical oceanography and marine ecosystem.1-OperationalWave heightmean directions1-d and 2-d wave spectraperiod swellAccuracy: 5 cm Spatial resolution: 1 km Polarization:SAR Compact polarization offers new opportunities for retrieving wave information.Other considerations:Current satellites: RADARSAT-2, Sentinel-1.Moorings, wave gliders and RCM to come. Gap: low revisiting frequencyArea of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:2-3 days (T)daily (G)Data latency:1-2 days[MAR-360.4]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Sea Ice CharacterizationMarine Forecast, marine safety, and to monitor the physical environment1-Operational for some products and 2-Pre-operational for others (e.g., melt pond, ice type).Sea-ice floe-size distributionsconcentrationthicknessmelt pondsice typeSpatial resolution:100 m  Other considerations:[Similar to Ice Monitoring: MAR-100]Current satellites: Radarsat-2, Ocean Colour/VisibleRCM to comeArea of Interest:  Arctic and subarctic watersCoverage Frequency:2-3 days (T)daily (G)Data latency:1-2 days[MAR-360.5]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Harmful Algal BloomDetection of Harmful algal bloom2-Pre-operationalCell abundance of harmful algae and bacteriaOther considerations:Use of satellite ocean color to derive biomass indices or rely on proxies.Current satellites: OLCI (ESA), MODIS and VIRS (NASA)Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (e.g., ocean, coastal, inland waterbodies and waterways).Coverage Frequency:2-3 days (T)daily (G)Data latency:1-2 days[MAR-360.6]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment – Ocean Color Monitor the biological environment, detect and quantify changes that may affect the entire marine ecosystem.1-Operational (2-Pre-operational and 3-Emerging for sensors that will be launch in the near future with extra spectral, temporal and spatial capacity)Ocean Color (chl, cdom, primary production and more)Other considerations:Various platforms, including ships, autonomous vehicles (argo floats and gliders) and moorings.Current satellites: OLCI (ESA), MODIS and VIRS (NASA).Gap: coastal areas are not monitored, need for high resolution (< 250 m) satellite with multi- or hyperspectral capacity (COCI-type).PACE (NASA) expected to be launched in 2020, need to support effort to ingest hyperspectral data in processing chain.Technology will grow over the coming decades.Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:Needed at various temporal (daily, weekly, monthly, seasonally, annually).Data Latency: 2-3 days (G)[MAR-360.7]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - PhytoplanktonMonitor the biological environment, detect and quantify changes that may affect the entire marine ecosystem.3-EmergingPhytoplankton vertical profileOther considerations:Shipboard and satellite LIDAR (e.g., Calipso satellite LiDAR, 2006-current).Area of Interest:  All Canadian waters (EEZ)Coverage Frequency:2-3 days (G)2 weeks (T)Data Latency: 24 – 48 h[MAR-360.8]Oceanographic monitoring and ecosystem assessment - Bottom TypeIdentify and monitor  habitat and habitat suitability in oceans, inland, and coastal waters (e.g., Great Lakes, Lake Winnipeg), and inland waterways (e.g. St. Lawrence River). 3-EmergingBottom type classification, state of the ecosystemOther considerations:With RCM and possibly COCI, technology will grow over the coming decades.Current Satellites:• Landsat, Sentinel-2• Radarsat-2• OLCI, MODIS, and VIRSArea of Interest:  All Canadian coastal watersCoverage Frequency:2-3 days (G)10 days (T)Data latency:1-2 days[MAR-370]Changes in marine / estuary fish habitat & VegetationIdentify and track changes in nearshore marine and estuary habitat & vegetation (eelgrass, kelp, etc.) that are important for fish.2- Pre- operationalBottom type classificationSpatial Resolution:5 – 250 mOther considerations:• Potentially from existing satellite imagery resources, but would require further investigation.Area of Interest:  BC coastal watersCoverage Frequency:Annually (T)Data Latency:6 months[MAR-380]Ship traffic monitoring and pattern identificationUse of AIS data to track and monitor ship location and identify navigational patterns/trends. This information is critical for defining surveying priorities and other planning activities related to navigational safety.This information is also critical for operational delivery of marine navigation and emergency response services.1-Operational•	Name of Ship•	Flag•	IMO•	Category•	MMSI,•	Call Signal•	LAT/LON•	Date/time•	FrequencyOther considerations:• Technological change impact minimal as format of AIS will remain consistent.• Measurements required over entire timeframe. Growth greatest during first five years as additional data becomes available.Area of Interest:Canada’s watersCoverage Frequency: AIS measurements from satellitemultiple times per day[MAR-390]Detection and identification of small vesselsSAR can be used to identify small vessel targets that are not captured by regulations requiring them to transmit AIS use other means of self-reporting.Data is needed which has high enough resolution to detect and classify ships, but must also have a large enough swath width to monitor large areas.1-Operational•	Lat/Long•	Date/Time•	Course/Speed•	Ship identification informationSpatial Resolution:5 m detectable ship lengthOther considerations:To detect small craft vessels (of 5m of length or larger) with low probability of false identification.  The goal is the development of a potential low impact shipping corridors to include small craft vessels.Area of Interest:Navigable Canadian waterwaysCoverage Frequency:Automatic identification of small craft vessels to be provided once per month during navigation season.Data Latency and Fast Tasking:  Delays in scheduling often result in the data not being used.  Fast tasking capability would be of incredible benefit.
4.2 GOVERNMENT OF CANADA LAND NEEDS This section contains the land needs of the Government of Canada to be considered in the EOSC study, including the inland waters (excluding those already included in DND/CAF SBS-RD document).  It is assumed that those needs must be met simultaneously when applicable and that compromise beam modes can only be used if they allow satisfaction of all the applicable needs.  This applies also to the maritime needs of the previous section.TABLE 42 –GC LAND NEEDS IN THE CONTEXT OF EOSC (INCLUDING INLAND WATER)ID NamePurpose and RationaleStage of Maturity Needed measurement(s)Measurement Performance(T: Threshold; G: Goal)Area of Interest and Revisit/Coverage Frequency(T: Threshold; G: Goal)Data Latency & Fast-tasking (T: Threshold; G: Goal)[LAN-100]Lake Ice MonitoringMonitoring of lake ice coverage for heat flux input estimates to improve weather forecast accuracy, support climate change monitoring.1 - OperationalLake ice type and extentLake ice vs. water extentIce thickness (G)Similar to Ice Monitoring [MAR-100].Other considerations:• High resolution optical imagery (VIS/IR) would be a complementary source of data for this application.• Reliable separation of ice from open water is an outstanding requirement.  CCD using X- or C-band over time period > 0.1 ms required. Concurrent optical data would assist.• Ice thickness information is highly desirable and a complementary source of data for this application.Areas of interest:National inland lakes (ref. Section 5.4) Coverage Frequency: Weekly (T)Twice weekly (G)Data latency:30 min (T)10 min (G)[LAN-110]Lake Ice  ThicknessMeasure presence and thickness of ice lakes in support of public safety (e.g. EGS) and climate change studies.3 - EmergingIce ThicknessEstimation of ice thickness (+/- 10 cm)Spatial Resolution:20-30 m over 350 km (T)3-5 m over 350 km (G)Noise floor:<-28 dB (T)<-30 dB (G)Other considerations:• • Ice thickness not possible with RCM.  Preferred approach is pursuit monostatic tandem mission.  Baseline on the order of 300m, revisit seconds to minutes to keep coherence.• Reliable separation of ice from open water is an outstanding requirement.  CCD using X- or C-band over time period > 0.1 ms required. Concurrent optical data would assist. Areas of interest:National inland lakesCoverage Frequency:Twice a week (T)Data Latency:24h[LAN-120]River Ice MonitoringMeasure presence and condition of river ice in support of public safety (e.g. EGS).1-Operational3- Emergingfor Ice Thickness Ice / No IceIce RoughnessIce ThicknessConsistent separation of ice and rough open waterConsistent separation of wet snow and flooded ice and open water – Need optical data to overcome SAR limitationsIdentification of ice types (e.g. smooth and rough-ice jams)Estimation of ice thickness (+/- 10 cm)Spatial Resolution:5 m over 350 km (T)1 m over 100 km (G)Noise floor:<-30 dB (T)<-35 dB (G)Other considerations:• River ice detection and conditions operationally today with C-band single channel HH• Ice thickness not possible with RCM.  Preferred approach is pursuit monostatic tandem mission.  Baseline on the order of 300m, revisit seconds to minutes to keep coherence• .• Reliable separation of ice from open water is an outstanding requirement.  L-band, concurrent optical data or bistatic SAR could assist.  • Maximize river coverage in individual framesAreas of interest:National scaleCoverage Frequency:Twice daily (T) [LAN-130]Monitoring of  ice formation in the Great Lakes connecting river channelsMonitoring of river ice formation to support regulatory operations and water balance monitoring3 - EmergingMonitoring of  ice formation in the Great Lakes connecting river channelsSimilar to ice monitoring [MAR-100].Other considerations:• High resolution optical imagery (VIS/IR) would be a complementary source of data for this application.Areas of interest:Great Lakes connecting river channelsCoverage Frequency:Daily (T)From December through to April.[LAN-200]Permafrost Landscape CharacterizationDetect and map the presence and impacts of frozen soils and ground ice 1-Operational for ground deformation3-Emerging for spatial distribution3-D Ground deformation related to ice growth, meltSpatial distribution of permafrost and ground iceSpatial Resolution:5 m for 3D terrain displacement10m for spatial distribution over 100kmx100km scenePolarization:Polarimetric (or compact-pol) data required to support PolInSAR methodsNoise floor:<-30 dB (T)<-35 dB (G)Quantization :  3 bit BAQ (T) to preserve phase quality, 4 bit BAQ (G)Other considerations:• For spatial distribution: direct measurements of the presence of permafrost and other types of ground ice are required over large areas.Currently cannot observe sub-surface ice directly.  Vegetation and deformation used as proxy for its presence.    • For ground deformation: InSAR approach used: vertical surface deformation required (mm accuracy).  3-D deformation desirable.• Research underway to assess longer wavelength polarimetric SARs (e.g. L-band, P-band) to detect ice directly  • Inclusion of concurrent optical data can assist through mapping of related landscape features and change.• See suggestions for Infrastructure Integrity Monitoring [LAN-800].Area of Interest:Continuous and Discontinuous Permafrost Regions of CanadaCoverage Frequency:Weekly through summer period.  [LAN-210]Glaciology - Iceberg DischargeTo enhance our understanding of climate change and its impacts.2- Pre-OperationalGlacier ice motion  - seasonalSpatial resolution: 5-10 mOther considerations:• Current data source: RADARSAT-2• L-band would improve velocity mapping capabilities in summer months• Integration with optical data (May to October) would be valuableAreas of interest:Terrestrial ice masses (150,000km2) within the Canadian Arctic Archipelago Coverage Frequency:1-2 day [LAN-220]Glaciology - Mass BalanceTo enhance our understanding of climate change and its impacts.1- OperationalGlacier ice thickness changeSpatial resolution: 5-10 mOther considerations:• Interferometric SAR (Ku Band) mode: current source – CryoSat-2Areas of interest:Include land ice masses across the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and Western / Northern Cordillera of CanadaCoverage Frequency:1-2 day [LAN-300]Estimating Snow Water Equivalent Radar retrievals of snow water equivalent are required to support land surface data assimilation for numerical weather prediction and hydrological forecasting.Coarser resolution (i.e. passive microwave) can be used for weekly mapping SWE across Canada’s agricultural extent for inputs to hydrological models and bio-geochemical (yield) models.  3 - EmergingSnow Water Equivalent (SWE)  Spatial resolution:1 km (T)500 m (G)Accuracy:30 mm (T)10 mm (G)Other considerations:• C-band measurements are not appropriate for snow water equivalent retrieval - higher frequency (Ku; Ka) measurements are required.• Current concept studies and analysis of experimental data focused on identifying ideal frequency or frequencies, retrieval algorithm development, and data assimilation.• For Agriculture, best available resolution from passive microwave might be sufficient, but desirable to have high level “canned” products.• For Wildfire monitoring, SWE over forested areas would aid in assessing fire risk.Area of interest:Land regions with seasonal snow cover (Northern hemisphere (T), globally (G)). Agricultural Region of CanadaCoverage Frequency:1-3 days [weekly in fall and spring for Agriculture]Data Latency:6-12 hrs for operational data assimilation[72h for Agriculture][LAN-310]Estimating Snow Cover ExtentWeekly mapping snow cover extent across Canada’s agricultural extent.Data used to map the extent of snow cover to help define start of growing season.1. Operational (As part of CALMS)Extent of snow coverSpatial Resolution (Sub-field level):30 m (T)10 m (G)Other considerations:Optical: NIR and SWIR critical (or “canned” product); Wide swath (AWiFS-type); Daily MODIS MOD10A1 L-2 Product currently used; Gaps over cloudy regions; Dependencies on USGS LP-DAAC archive that does not ensure timely delivery (<48 h) of data. Concerns over MODIS life-span and effort to transition to new sensor.For Wildfire monitoring, snow extent over forested areas would aid in assessing fire risk.Area of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada.Coverage Frequency:Weekly (T)Daily (G)For the entire snow season into the spring.Data Latency:72 hours (T)[LAN-400]Ecosystem Monitoring – Wetlands and CoastlineEcosystem habitat monitoring, assessment and mapping, Arctic coastline sensitivity mapping2 – Pre-operationalWetland mapping, habitat monitoring, coastal mappingPolarization:Continuity of polarimetric data for wetlands (Compact-Pol and Quad-pol)Spatial Resolution:Higher resolution (5 m), larger swath widths towards improved operationalizationNESZ:For Peatland mapping, <-34 dBOther considerations:• L-band would be beneficial for wetland vegetation penetration.• L-band required for peatland mapping• SAR complimentary data source with other space-based EO sources and sensor types including optical data.Areas of interest:Wetland sites and coastal erosion sites (ref. Section 5.5).Coverage Frequency:Higher re-visit times and coherent change detection (~daily) are expected to improve ecosystem monitoring.[LAN-410]Northern  Ecosystem MonitoringLand-based ecosystem management decision support and monitoring.Data is needed to detect and monitor inland (lake) development, especially in the north where there is limited physical access to sites.1-Operational for optical data2-Pre-Operational for radar dataData for the analysis of the cumulative impacts of human activities (e.g. mines, dams, etc.) and natural causes are required.  Spatial Resolution:High resolution (exact value not a high priority)Other considerations:• This data could come in the form of optical and radar data.• Current source: LANDSAT.Area of Interest:  Focus on Canada’s north (inland and coastal).  Coverage Frequency:Annual (T)[LAN-420]Remote Sensing of Freshwater EnvironmentsTo inform assessments, research programs, and management of anadromous fish species.To assess impacts of land-use changes on salmon habitat and population dynamics.3-EmergingWater DepthTemperatureTurbidityStream flow velocity and volume.Trophic statusRiparian vegetation and stream cover vegetation characteristics.Spatial Resolution: 5 mOther considerations:• Potentially from satellite imagery, in situ platforms, acoustic profilers, drones.•  Additional investigation of emerging technologies is required.Area of Interest:  Pacific Region (BC and Yukon) rivers, lakes and wetlandsCoverage Frequency:Monthly (T)weekly (G) Data Latency:30 days[LAN-430]Surface Water MappingAnnual and within-season maps of surface water body extent, including ephemeral areas. Surface water seen to have multiple uses with other applications (e.g. ecosystems).Map inland lakes and rivers in support of National Hydro Network.1-Operational (Annual too-wet-to-seed, open water, wetlands as part of Annual Crop Inventory for Canada) 3. Emerging (within-season water levels) Terrestrial water body extent, incl. ephemeral areas (e.g. wetlands), relative and absolute water levels and  seasonal change detectionKey classes: -Too-wet-to-seed (in Spring); -Open water -Wetlands and -Open water levelsSpatial Resolution (Sub-field):10 m (T)5 m (G)over large as possible swathsPolarization:Polarimetric data needed for wetland (incl. peatlands) classification.Noise floor:<-28 dB (T)<-32 dB (G)Repeat pass imagery and phase preservation required for water level dynamics via coherence and InSAR methods.Other considerations:•  RADARSAT-2 Wide Mode (VV+VH), Sentinel-2 and RCM Compact-Pol currently used;Gaps if confliction with OGDs, especially in spring.• C-band for open water bodies (high-resolution for sloughs and dugouts). C- and L-band for wetlands and open water (L-band). • Possible extension to mapping on-farm water resources (sloughs, dug-outs, water levels). Currently an Emerging R&D priority. Area of interest:Surface waters in Canada, including the entire  agricultural region of Canada and specific regions.  Also all  Canadian Prairies. Entire BC, MB, ON, NB, NS, PEI, NFLD&LAB at lower frequency.Coverage Frequency:Weekly & on-demand when needed. Annually for BC, MB, ON, NB, NS, PEI, NFLD&LAB. Seasonal (March – November)Data Latency:24 h (T)[LAN-440]Flood Mapping and Flood RiskMeasure inundated areas in support of emergency geomatic services and assessing flood risk1-Operationalfor water extent 2- Pre-Operational for water levelSurface water extentSurface water levelSpatial Resolution:10 m over 350 km swath (T)5 m over 350 km swath (G)Polarization:HH/HV & CP (T)Fully Polarimetric (G)Noise floor:<-28 dB (T)<-32 dB (G)Repeat pass imagery and phase preservation required for water level estimation via coherence and InSAR methods.  Would benefit from tandem formation.   Other considerations:• Consistent detection between dry land and flooded land independent of acquisition geometry and environmental conditions.• Detection of flooded areas under vegetation canopies and of flooded urban areas required.• Current data sources: RADARSAT-2, Sentinel-1 • Frequency: C+L or C+S: S & L-band could assist detecting flooded forests, vegetation• Integration of concurrent optical data would be valuable (resolution up to 3m in a visible spectrum).Area of interest:  Varies annuallyCoverage Frequency:3-4 times dailyData Latency:30 min[LAN-500]Soil Moisture Data AssimilationFor inclusion in GC’s land data assimilation system, in order to provide analyses for environmental applications including weather, hydrology, agriculture, and forest fires.  3 - EmergingSoil moisture, numerical modelingOther considerations:• SAR data currently a complementary source of information for assimilation into numerical weather modeling.  It is not used yet operationally for soil moisture.  First implementation would be with RCM, but the value of C-band active measurements would increase with increased temporal and spatial coverage.• An instrument on board that would be quite valuable for NWP is a GNSS receiver for radio-occultation (RO). Small instrument with significant impact on forecasts.     Areas of Interest:Canada’s agriculture regions (prairies, southern Ontario and southern Quebec) (T).  Eventually national, continental, and even global coverage (G).  Coverage Frequency:1-3 days Data latency:12 h (T)2 h (G)  [LAN-510]Soil Moisture for AgricultureMapping of surface soil moisture during the growing season. Used to identify areas of excessive dryness and wetness.  2-Pre-Operational for SAR 1- Operational for Passive Microwave Volumetric surface soil moisture content over agricultural land.Spatial Resolution for Agriculture Region of Canada (Sub-field level):10 m (T), maybe finerCoarser (e.g. best resolution of passive microwave) for entire Canada terrestrial landmass.Other considerations:• Both L-Band SAR and passive microwave are needed for this application.• SAR: RADARSAT-2 Wide Fine Quad-Pol and RCM Compact-Pol currently used; Gaps if confliction with OGDs.  HH+VV or Compact-Polarization required.• Passive Microwave: L-Band, SMAP currently used.• For Wildfire monitoring, soil moisture over forested areas would aid in assessing fire risk.Areas of interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Specific regions at high resolution (i.e. radar). Ref. Section 5.6.Canada terrestrial landmass at lower resolution (i.e. passive microwave).Coverage Frequency:Daily (radar) and 1-3 days (passive microwave)& on-demand when needed (May – September).Data Latency:24 h (T)[LAN-600.1]Land Cover / Land Use Classification - Mapping of crop and non-agricultural cover types (Annual)Annual maps of crop and non-agricultural cover types.  Supports variousactivities thatrequire knowledgeon the state andchange inagriculturalproduction.  1- OperationalAgricultural and non-agricultural land use and land cover.Spatial Resolution (Sub-field level):Optical:10-20 m (T)5 m (G)SAR:10 mOther considerations:• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands critical, Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 currently used,  Gaps over cloudy regions; Gaps in temporal coverage;Wide swath requirements.  • SAR: Currently uses C-band  RADARSAT-2 SAR (VV+VH) due to constraints on what is available operationally over large swaths. Transition to C-band RCM Compact-Pol in 2020. Multi-frequency SAR is required (X+C, L+C or X+C+L) to reduce dependence on optical data and improve accuracies; Gaps in temporal coverage often due to order conflicts with other users.• High coverage frequency critical especially with high frequency SAR inearly growing seasonArea of interest:Agricultural region of Canada (Ref. Section 5.7) and international sites (e.g. JECAM ).  Coverage Frequency:Weekly (T)Sub-Weekly (G)(April – Nov)Data Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-600.2]Land Cover / Land Use Classification -Mapping of major crop types (Within-Season) Supports various activities that require knowledge on the state and change in agricultural production. 3-EmergingAgricultural land cover (major crop types only) Spatial Resolution (Sub-field level):Optical:10-20 m (T)5 m (G)SAR:10 mOther considerations:• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands critical; Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 currently used; Gaps over cloudy regions; Gaps in temporal coverage; Wide swath requirements.   • SAR: Currently uses RADARSAT-2, Wide Mode (VV+VH); Sentinel-1; RCM Compact-Pol (from 2020); Gaps in temporal coverage often due to order conflicts with other users.  • Access to other SAR frequencies (X+C, L+C or X+C+L) decrease reliance on optical data and move SAR uptake forward by agriculture. RCM Compact-Pol should provide richer information, albeit secondary to adding multiple frequencies. • High coverage frequency critical especially with high frequency SAR inearly growing seasonArea of interest:Agricultural region of Canada (Ref. Section 5.7) and international sites (e.g. JECAM).  Coverage Frequency:Weekly (T)Sub-Weekly (G)(April – Nov)Data Latency:72 hours (T)[LAN-600.3]Land Cover / Land Use Classification -Living Over-Winter Cover Crops Annual maps of living over-winter crop type.  3-EmergingAgricultural land coverSpatial Resolution (Sub-field level):Optical:20 m (T)<10 m (G)Other considerations:Optical : R, Red Edge, NIR & SWIR bands critical; Wide swath requirements.   Area of interest:Agricultural region of Canada/ Specific RegionsCoverage Frequency:Weekly (late fall and early spring)Data Latency:24 hours (T)[LAN-610.1]Vegetation Condition Assessment - Vegetation biophysical monitoring - AgricultureWeekly (or finer) mapping of vegetation biophysical condition.Used to identify areas of poor and high plant productivity to help target various GC programs.1-Operational (Optical)3-Emerging (SAR)Vegetation biophysical variables over agricultural land. Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):Optical :30 m (T), 80 m (T) for TIR5 m (G)SAR :10 m (T)Wide swaths requiredOther considerations:• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands critical at minimum. If moving to hyperspectral, B, G, Y bands desirable; with two bands within "red edge"; TIR (critical for ET). • MODIS currently used; Dependencies on USGS LP-DAAC does not ensure timely data delivery (<48 h). Effort to transition to new sensor post-MODIS.• SAR: C-band (RADARSAT-2, Fine Quad-Pol Mode and RCM Compact-Pol currently used); Gaps if confliction with OGDs;Models have been developed that use C-band VV + VH, but we expect improved performance if multi-frequency SAR added (X+C, L+C, X+L+C) for range of biomass conditions; polarization diversity is also important (VH + another polarization for biomass/LAI; Quad-Pol or Compact-Pol for phenology). • Needed  measurements includes: NDVI; LAI; Yield; Above-ground Biomass; Evapotranspiration; Surface Temp.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Specific regions.Coverage Frequency:Weekly (optical)Twice weekly or better (SAR)  (March – October).Data Latency:24 h (T)[LAN-610.15]Vegetation Condition Assessment - Vegetation biophysical monitoring – Cumulative Effects Monthly (or finer) mapping of vegetation biophysical condition.Used for vegetation metrics required to assess effects on valued ecosystem components1-Operational (Optical)3-Emerging (SAR)Vegetation biophysical variables for cumulative effects assessment at national scale Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):Optical :<40m (T)5 m (G)SAR :10 m (T)Wide swaths requiredOther considerations:• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands critical at minimum. If moving to hyperspectral, B, G, Y bands desirable; with two bands within "red edge"; TIR (critical for ET). • Sentinel 2 and Landsat images implemented.  Considering adding higher spatial and spectral resolution imagers as available.• SAR: No plans for C-band due to low stability of products.  Dual or circular pol L-Band or P-Band would meet requirements for certain products. Needed  measurements includes albedo, Fapar, LAI; Fcover, canopy water content, canopy chlorophyll content.Areas of Interest:National scale with regions ~1000kmx1000kmCoverage Frequency:At least one cloud free acquisition per month.Data Latency:72 h (T)[LAN-610.2]Vegetation Condition Assessment - Vegetation biochemical monitoring-AgricultureWeekly mapping of vegetation biochemical condition .Used to track crop-specific vegetation health. 3- EmergingVegetation Biochemical variables over agricultural land Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):30 m (T)10 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: Definition of "red edge" critical; Two bands within "red edge" preferable.• Wide swath.• Needed measurements includes: Leaf chlorophyll; leaf N; PRI; other Photo-chemical Indices].Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Specific regions.Coverage Frequency:WeeklyData Latency:72 h (T)[LAN-615.1]CropProductionCycleMonitoring - Detection ofseeding andharvest datesAnnual maps of crop seeding and harvest dates.Used for cropgrowth modeling,yield forecast andharvest predictionand supports GCSustainabilityMetrics activity.2- Pre-Operational(optical-harvesting date only)3- Emerging(SAR)Dates ofseeding andharvest overagriculturallandSpatial resolution (Field level):10-20 m (T)5 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: B, R, NIR -> NDVI, EVI, other indices; MODIS currently used; MODIS type spectral data required but at much higher spatial resolutions.• SAR: Sentinel-1 currently used; Preliminary research developedcoherent and incoherent SAR change detection techniques for the occurrence of cropping activities.• RADARSAT-2 polarimetric SAR data, and RCM CP; Sentinel-1 InSAR data (VV+VH); Multi-frequency SAR expected to improve accuracies.  Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of CanadaCoverage Frequency:Weekly to twice weekly.Data Latency:72 h (T)[LAN-615.2]CropProductionCycleMonitoring - Detection ofcrop growthstages(phenology)Weekly (or finer) mappingof crop key growth stages (phenology)Used for cropgrowth  modeling,yield forecast and harvest predictionand supports GCSustainabilityMetrics activity.2- Pre-Operational(optical)3- Emerging(SAR)Growth stageof crops overagriculturallandSpatial resolution (Field level):10-20 m (T)5 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: MODIS currently used,  transitioning to VIIRS; Gaps in eastern. Canada where field sizes are small.• SAR: RADARSAT-2 polarimetric SAR data, RCM Compact-Pol; Sentinel-1 InSAR data (VV+VH) currenly used;  Gaps if conflicts exist with other user needs for R2 and RCM.• Multi-frequency SAR expected to improve accuracies.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of CanadaCoverage Frequency:Weekly to twice weekly.Data Latency:72 h (T)[LAN-620.1]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment - Mapping grassland and rangeland extentAnnual mapping of grassland, rangeland and forage. Used to track changes in grassland, rangeland and forage for various GC applications. 1. Operational (as part of the Annual Space-Based Crop Inventory*)3. Emerging (other)* While the ACI annually maps grassland, rangeland and forage, the mapping accuracy of these classes needs improvement. Extent of grassland, rangeland and pasture.Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):10-20 m (T)<10 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: R, NIR and SWIR; Landsat-8 currently used; Gaps over cloudy regions.• SAR: C-Band, X-Band; RADARSAT-2 Wide Mode /RCM Compact-Pol currently used; Gaps if confliction with OGDs.• Without optical data ACI cannot be generated; without SAR, ACI would be produced with optical data with lower classification accuracies.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada (western provs.)Coverage Frequency:Monthly, during growing season (March-October).Data Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-620.2]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment - Estimating grassland and rangeland healthWeekly mapping of grassland and rangeland condition. Identification of areas of poor and high plant productivity is required to help target various GC programs.1- Operational (Optical, as part of CALMS)3- Emerging (SAR)Vegetation biophysical variables over grassland, rangeland and pasture.Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):Optical :10-20 m (T), 80 m (T) for TIR5 m (G)SAR :30 m (T), 5 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands critical. B, G, Y bands desirable; Two bands within "red edge" preferable; TIR (critical for ET); MODIS, Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 currently used. Dependencies on USGS LP-DAAC archive that does not ensure timely delivery (<48 h) of data. Concerns over MODIS life-span and effort to transition to new sensor.• SAR: C-band, X-Band; Needed measurements includes: Biomass production, Amounts of photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic vegetation, bare soil ground cover.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada (western provs).Coverage Frequency:Weekly (March-Oct)Data Latency:24 h (T)[LAN-620.3]Grassland and Rangeland Condition Assessment - Estimating grassland and rangeland health – invasive plantMapping of invasive plant species.Data used to identify invasive plant species, detect new infestations and quantify success of control programs.3. EmergingInvasive plant species in grassland, rangeland and pastureSpatial resolution (Sub-field level):5 m (T)1 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical: Visible, NIR and SWIR; • Wide as swath as possible without compromising on spatial resolutionAreas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada (western prov.) Coverage Frequency:WeeklyData Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-630.1]Land Management- Tillage and crop residue mappingTwice weekly mapping of the tillage intensity.  Data used to: (a) map crop residue; and (b) characterize tillage status.3. Emerging (Could be considered pre-operational for optical data, but only on a regional scale (Lake Erie watershed))Tillage intensity of agricultural land.Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):10 m (T)Other considerations :• Optical: R, NIR & SWIR bands; SWIR critical at 2100-2200nm where residue cellulose more easily detected; Landsat-style multispectral scanners currently used; Gaps over cloudy regions; • SAR: Interferometric SAR (InSAR, for detecting changes in soil height due to tillage) or CCD (changes in intensity and phase due to soil tillage); requires frequent revisits throughout growing season; some limited research with RADARSAT-2; Gaps if confliction with OGDs.• Needed measurements includes: crop residue cover (total and fraction of surface), tillage occurrence, soil disturbance.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Specific regions.Coverage Frequency:Twice weekly throughout growing season, March to October, Data Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-630.2]Land Management- Estimation of soil propertiesAnnual top soil monitoring. EO data including both optical and microwave data can enhance the spatio-temporal resolution of the predictive soil mapping workflow. 3. EmergingPhysical and chemical soil propertiesat across scales from field, watershed, region to nationwide. Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):Optical:30 m (T)10 m (G)SAR:30 m (T)5 m (G)Other considerations:• Optical : NIR, SWIR, hyperspectral • SAR: L and P band preferred, C-band possible. • Needed measurements includes: soil type, soil texture, soil organic carbon stock, nitrogen, phosphorus, density, conductivity, salinity, etc. Areas of Interest:National scale, with emphasize on agriculture region and fringe areas. Coverage Frequency:WeeklyData Latency:Optical:1 week (T)SAR:24 - 48 hours (T)[LAN-630.3]Land Management-Prescription mapping for variable management of agricultural inputs and crop yield (Precision input management) Prescription mapping for variable management of agricultural inputs and crop yield at sub-field scale.Data used to map soil physico-chemical properties.3. EmergingLAI, chlorophyll, crop yield Spatial resolution (Sub-field level):10 m (T)5m (G)Other considerations:SAR: C-Band; Optical: MODIS, Sentinel-1, Landsat, RapidEye etc. currently used. Area of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Prairie Provinces.Coverage Frequency:WeeklyData Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-630.4]Land Management- Delineation of homogeneous field sub-unitsWithin-field delineation of homogeneous field sub-units. Required for implementing site specific management practices and for running process-based crop models.3. EmergingWithin-field delineation of homogeneous field sub-unitsSpatial resolution (Sub-field level):5 m (T)1 m (G)Other considerations:Optical: Some research with high resolution hyperspectralSAR: C-band, X-band; Some research with airborne SAR, high resolution satellite C-band SAR.Areas of Interest:Agricultural region of Canada / Specific regions.Coverage Frequency:Weekly, bare soil and growing season.Data Latency:1 week (T)[LAN-700]Forest canopy height mapping and monitoringForest height is an important indicator of timber production and closely related to forest biomass in forestry.3- Emerging  Forest canopy heightSpatial resolution:10 mNoise floorLower than RCM (e.g. RCM: <-25dB for 16m, <-19dB for 5m)Other considerations:• Single-pass tandem radar interferometry • Current data source:  single-pass dual-copol/single-pol modes of TanDEM-X radar interferometry • Tandem mission critical to avoid temporal decorrelation• Wide swath and polarimetric modes• Multi-frequency preferred • Choice of different baselinesArea of interest:Large scale managed and non-managed forests mapping in CanadaCurrently R&D over sites in BC, AB, NWT and ON Coverage Frequency:Seasonal coverage for change detection and monitoring[LAN-710]Biomass mapping and monitoringForest biomass along with related structural attributes (basal area, volume) and its dynamic is a key for national forest inventory (NFI), forest productivity assessment and bioenergy inventory.2- Pre-operationalLive aboveground forest biomassSpatial resolution:25-50 m Polarization:Compact-polOther considerations:• C-band is more useful within forests with low biomass levels or within treed wetlands. • In general, C-band datasets mostly useful when fused with  L-band SAR and optical datasets• Radar modes/temporal requirements can be largely harmonized with those needed for height mapping and wildfire mapping.• Background systematic acquisitions in proper mode needed to ensure yearly multi-seasonal national coverages.Area of interest:National coverage with emphasis on unmanaged northern boreal forests.Coverage Frequency:Multi-year, multi-seasonal[LAN-720]Active wildfire mapping and fuel consumption monitoringMonitoring of fire extent as well as duff and peat consumption aids in wildfire spread and smoke dispersion modelling.3-Emerging Forest structure change and surface deformation due to forest fireSpatial resolution:10 mOther considerations:• Penetration of dense forest canopy not possible with RCM C-band; L-band would provide better penetration in dense forest.• Not currently operational as RS-2 24-day repeat cycle is insufficient for InSAR approach.• RCM would provide surface deformation/ground fuel consumption only in open forest and wetlands; L-band and tandem mission would help to extend this to denser forest.• Reliable SAR measurements of soil moisture (LAN-510), snow extent would help estimate soil moisture and fire risk.Area of interest:Entire forested area of CanadaCoverage Frequency:Multi-seasonal radar interferometry monitoring for pre-burn areas and ones for post fire conditions. The first post-fire should be within 3-4 days after fire (1-2 days would be ideal)Data Latency:NRT delivery for post fire [LAN-800]Infrastructure Integrity MonitoringMonitor infrastructure and surrounding terrain to assess risk to integrity1-Operational3-dimensional terrain displacement Infrastructure stability Feature detection and characterization over time (e.g. debris, soil)Spatial Resolution:1m to 5m function of terrain features and infrastructure typePolarization:Polarimetric (or compact-pol) data required to support PolInSAR methodsQuantization:  3 bits (T) for compact-pol and polarimetric mode, 4 bits (G).Other considerations:• InSAR approach used for 3D terrain displacement and infrastructure stability• Highly accurate orbital vector needed (equivalent to European missions) needed for 3D terrain displacement.• Measuring change in amplitude over wide range of incidence angles on a daily basis for feature detection.• Multiple viewing geometries / look directions needed to support 3-D analysis.  The displacement of some terrain cannot be measured accurately via a near-polar orbit.  As such, potential value in combination of data acquired by near-polar and non-near polar orbits.• Consider platforms with multiple orbital tubes to accommodate various needs (e.g. vertical structure via tomography vs. surface displacement via traditional InSAR)• Measurements required in vegetated/forested areas – L-band needed.Area of Interest: no standard AOIs (projects dependent).Coverage Frequency:DailyCoherent Change Detection Revisit:4 days for C-band6-8 days for L-band[LAN-810]Infrastructure Damage AssessmentDetecting change in built infrastructure integrity (e.g. roads, rail, bridges, and buildings) due to use and hazards (e.g. earthquakes).2-Pre-OperationalIdentify post-event changes in infrastructure and surrounding environmentSpatial Resolution:3 mPolarization:Polarimetric (or compact-pol) data required Quantization:  3 bits (T) for compact-pol and polarimetric mode, 4 bits (G). Other considerations:• Highly accurate orbital vector needed (equivalent to European missions)• Baseline datasets over critical infrastructure and urban areas required• Concurrent high resolution optical (incl. LiDAR) is strong complement• Multi-frequency approach (e.g. C and L) will improve target characterization and change detectionArea of Interest:no standard AOIs (projects dependent).Coverage Frequency:DailyData Latency:(<15 min) when responding to events.Fast-tasking:Required when responding to events.[LAN-820]Monitoring Seismically Active Areas and VolcanoesAssessment of seismicity and source mechanisms for hazard estimation.2-Pre-OperationalMulti-dimensional surface deformation over regional areasSpatial Resolution:5-10 mPolarization:Polarimetric data may improve deformation measurements through better target coherence. Other considerations:• InSAR approach to measure mm-scale ground deformation • Highly accurate orbital vector needed (equivalent to European missions)• Ascending and descending passes for 2-dimensional deformation• Information informs understanding of events and improves earthquake and volcano hazard forecasts.• Non-polar orbits could be useful for 3-D deformation• Multi-frequency approach (e.g. C and L) will improve measurements due to better coherence and atmospheric correction (ionosphere).• Concurrent estimate of water vapour within imaging path would improve InSAR measurements.Area of Interest:Targeted 50x50 km patches over Canada’s actively seismic areas  (1/3rd of Canada – Ref. Section 5.8)Coverage Frequency:Weekly[LAN-830]Rapid Earthquake CharacterizationMeasure large scale surface deformation related to earthquakes.1-OperationalCo-seismic surface deformation Spatial Resolution:5-10 m Other considerations:• InSAR approach to measure centimetre-scale ground deformation• Baseline datasets required over seismically active areas• Highly accurate orbital vector needed (equivalent to European missions)• Although currently using R-2 and Sentinel-1 data, latency is a severe limitation of current approach.• Seismic data can be combined with co-seismic InSAR  deformations to obtain improved estimates of earthquake properties (operational in other countries)• Concurrent estimate of water vapour within imaging path would improve InSAR measurements.Area of Interest:Specific regions (50 x 50 km) immediately after an earthquake Data Latency:<15 min when responding to events.Fast-tasking:Required when responding to events.[LAN-840]Assessing Induced Surface DeformationAssessment of ground deformation related to human activities (e.g. oil sands steam injection, CO2 injection, water withdrawal and injection).1-OperationalMulti-dimensional surface deformation over regional areasSpatial Resolution:3 mPolarization:Polarimetric data may improve deformation measurements through better target coherence. Other considerations:• InSAR approach to measure mm-scale ground deformation measured over target areas• Highly accurate orbital vector needed (equivalent to European missions)• Ascending and descending passes for 2-dimensional deformation• Non-polar orbits could be useful for 3-D deformation• Multi-frequency approach (e.g. C and L) will improve measurements due to better coherence and atmospheric correction (ionosphere).• Concurrent estimate of water vapour within imaging path would improve InSAR measurements.Area of Interest: no standard AOIs (projects dependent).Coverage Frequency:Weekly
4.3 GC NEEDS RELATED TO DATA AVAILABILITY AND CONTINUITY, DATA ACCESS AND USE AND SECURITYData Availability and Continuity:[DAC-010] Continuity. There is a need to ensure SAR data continuity to avoid any gap in the operational applications.  [DAC-020] Reliability.  For operational applications, it is critical to have a predictable and reliable access to near-real time data.   [DAC-030] Scalability. There is a need for the system to be scalable to allow for potential growth of the demand.    Data Access and Use:[DAT-010] Orders Override.  The capability to override other orders for purposes of health and safety of the system, emergency responses, national security events, or other urgent operations (24/7 operations) is essential. [DAT-040] Data Sharing.  Data sharing with partners inside or outside the GC is essential (including other countries). Note: Data sharing is specifically needed for ice monitoring (e.g. NAIS), oil pollution, lake and river ice monitoring (US shared transboundary water areas), Winds (e.g. NOAA), climate research applications  and Agriculture applications.  Data includes raw data, imagery and value-added products. [DAT-050] Archiving.  Need for an archive for the data from all sensors as well as derived information products, which can be easily and efficiently exploited. 	Note: The archive should support all levels of satellite data and products, from raw instrument data to gridded derived products.[DAT-060] Data Analysis Tools.  Data analysis tools are needed to enable and simplify processing of the vast amount of information gathered by the space assets.  Note: This includes advanced processing to exploit other parameters of the data collected, to include as a minimum: Track history, Anomaly detection, Big data manipulation & product reports and Predictive analytics.[DAT-070] Efficient Data Processing, Exploitation and Dissemination.  There is a need for automated, semi-automated, and manual operations for data processing, exploitation and dissemination. Note: This implies the capability to map raw data into a gridded field at a given projection and resolution with calibration coefficients applied. On-board processing can be explored as an option.[DAT-080] Extended Data Access.  Access to archived data and their processing, exploitation and dissemination is needed until a point in time that there remains no further relevance or operational utility to the archived data (beyond the life of the space assets). [DAT-110] Big Data Exploitation.  There is a need for the data archive to be able to receive and exploit data from other systems and archives. Note: This includes the ability to search for data and information products within operational timelines using simple tools and interfaces, which can process and analyze large volumes of data.[DAT-120] Data Format.  There is a need for the data to be in a suitable format(s) to enable integration into other systems. [DAT-130] Training.  There is a need for training to ensure GC stakeholders understand the potential, utility and applications associated with the system. Note: This includes tailored training for different levels (from a high level understanding of the capability, to exploitation, maintenance and upgrade of the system), as well as periodic training to account for change in personnel.   Security:[SEC-010] Security & Protection Measures.  Security and protection measures need to be in place to protect the assets from potential hostile events or accidents.       Note: This includes the capability to perform a maneuver in the event of a possible conjunction.      [SEC-020] Ground Infrastructure & Network Security.  The system ground infrastructure and network connectivity is required to be protected in accordance with physical, network and cyber security policies. [SEC-040] Jamming, Blinding, or Interference.  Protective measures need to be in place to protect sensitive remote sensing components from being damaged in the event of jamming, blinding, or interference. [SEC-050] Restricted Visibility.  There is a need to be capable to restrict visibility into the data ordering system and the geospatial data archive. 4.4 CONSTRAINTS[CON-010] Duration.  The proposed solutions must ensure service continuity for a minimum duration of 15 years. [CON-020] Compliance with GC Legislations, Directives and Policies.  The proposed solution must comply with GC legislations, directives and policies, including but not limited to: Remote Sensing Space Systems Act (RSSSA), security policies and the spirit of the GC Open Data Directive (within the limitations of the applicable laws and security constraints). 4.5 OTHER CONSIDERATIONSThe proposed solution should take advantage of the existing Canadian ground infrastructures developed for the RCM to the maximum extent possible, when it is cost effective to do so.  This also includes considering continuity of the RCM data format to minimize the impacts on the operations.While the favored approach is to be as much as possible technology agnostic and focus on the services, there is a significant experience and heritage with C-band SAR data in Canada that cannot be ignored.  Therefore, although solutions incorporating any types of sensors meeting the needs are encouraged, the impact of the change of technology on the delivery of the required information must be taken into consideration.           
5 AREAS OF INTEREST5.1 ICE MONITORING AOIS [MAR-100]The areas of interest for ice monitoring are season-dependent.  For simplicity, the entire Ice Monitoring Canadian AOI is shown.Figure 51: Entire Ice Monitoring Canadian AOI (seasonal dependency not shown).Figure 52: North Pole AOI for Ice Monitoring.5.2 OIL POLLUTION (INCL. MOST OF NATIONAL SAR WINDS) AOIS [MAR-120]Figure 53: Entire Oil Pollution Canadian AOI including most part of National SAR Winds regions (seasonal dependency not shown).
5.3 ICE DYNAMICS AOIS [MAR-150]Figure 54: Pan-Arctic AOI for Ice Dynamics.
5.4 LAKE ICE MONITORING AOIS [LAN-100]Figure 55: Lake Ice Monitoring AOIs (Jan-Feb).Figure 56: Lake Ice Monitoring AOIs (March-April).Figure 57: Lake Ice Monitoring AOIs (May-June).Figure 58: Lake Ice Monitoring AOIs (July and Oct; none in Aug-Sep).Figure 59: Lake Ice Monitoring AOIs (Nov-Dec).
5.5 ECOSYSTEM MONITORING AOIS [LAN-400]These are the actual sites of interest.  They are expected to evolve with time.Figure 510: Ecosystem Monitoring actual AOIs.5.6 SOIL MOISTURE FOR AGRICULTURE AOIS [LAN-510]Figure 511: Soil Moisture AOIs.5.7 LAND COVER AOIS [LAN-600]Figure 512: Canadian Land cover AOIs.5.8 ACTIVE SEISMIC AREAS [LAN-820]Figure 513: Canada’s actively seismic AOIs.6 ACRONYMSThe following provides a list of applicable acronyms.AcronymDefinitionAISAutomatic Identification SystemAOIArea of InterestBAQBlock Adaptive QuantizationCOCICoastal Ocean Color ImagerCSACanadian Space AgencyEEZExclusive Economic ZoneEOEarth ObservationEOSCEarth Observation Service ContinuityESAEuropean Space AgencyGCGovernment of CanadaGNSSGlobal Navigation Satellite SystemISTOPIntegrated Satellite Tracking Of Pollution JECAMJoint Experiment of Crop Assessment and MonitoringNASANational Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNOAANational Oceanic and Atmospheric AdministrationNWPNumerical Weather PredictionRCMRADARSAT Constellation MissionRORadio OccultationRSSSARemote Sensing Space Systems ActSARSynthetic Aperture Radar1 Stage of Maturity in the context of EOSC: 1-      Operational: currently operational need for which the absence of data will directly impact the department capacity to deliver its mandate in 2026.    2-      Pre-operational: need that is expected to become operational and improve the department capacity to deliver its mandate in 2026.  3-      Emerging: need that is emerging and for which there is uncertainty on its eventual operational use by the department to deliver its mandate.  2 Satellite altimetry is used (SWOT SAR interferometric altimeter will be used: non-traditional SAR).3 Operational for optical, emerging for radar and hyperspectral.4 Operational for temperature, emerging for salinity.5 Satellite altimetry is used (SWOT SAR interferometric altimeter will be used: non-traditional SAR).6 Emerging for ice thickness.7 Operational for ground deformation, emerging for spatial distribution.8 Radar altimetry is used (Cryosat SAR interferometer: non-traditional SAR).9 On-going studies to determine best approach to derive SWE.  Could be SAR, but at higher frequencies than C-band (e.g. Ku/Ka).10 Pre-operational for radar data, operational for optical data.11 Operational for Annual Crop Inventory for Canada applications, emerging for within-season water levels.12 Operational for water extent, pre-operational for water level.13 Also done operationally at coarser resolution using passive microwave.14 Operational for passive microwave, pre-operational for SAR.15 Operational for optical data, emerging for SAR.16 Operational for optical data, emerging for SAR.17 Pre-operational for optical data (harvesting date only, not seeding date), emerging for SAR18 Pre-operational for optical data, emerging for SAR19 Operational as part of the Annual Space-Based Crop Inventory, emerging for other applications.20 Operational for optical data, emerging for SAR.21 Could be considered pre-operational for optical data, but only on a regional scale (Lake Erie watershed)22 Single-pass tandem radar interferometry is needed (e.g. Tandem-X).23 C-band only for wetland or open forest.  L-band needed for dense forest.24 Data Latency: time between data acquisition and product delivery.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Rev EPage ii CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Rev E CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Rev E CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Rev E CSA-EOSC-RD-0001Rev E